Bassem Gebraeel - B.Comm 

Telephone: (438) 862-9922					
BassemGebraeel@gmail.com
linkedin.com/in/bassemgebraeel			      			   Canadian Citizen 


Profile
Extensive experience in financial analysis and business intelligence.
Bilingual in French and English.
Strong technical and analytical skills.
Effective communicator and problem solver.
Proficient in organizational management and meeting deadlines.
Skilled in teamwork, autonomy, and working under pressure.
Computer & Technical Skills
Business Analysis: Requirements gathering, process mapping, data-driven decision-making
Data Integration and Business Intelligence: Power BI, SSIS, DQS, MDS
Enterprise Software: Oracle, SAP, QuickBooks Online
Microsoft Applications: Office, Visio, Project
Professional experience	
GE Vernova	 2022– 2023
Financial Analyst, Montreal
Generated detailed financial reports, KPI analyses, and corporate reports, enabling data-driven decision-making
Spearheaded data extraction efforts, providing comprehensive financial insights that contributed to process optimization
Played a pivotal role in achieving exceptional results, securing record Renewable Energy orders totaling $8.3 billion and driving double-digit revenue growth of 24% across Onshore Wind, Offshore Wind, and Grid sectors
Achievement: Demonstrated impactful financial analysis and strategic contributions, resulting in a 24% revenue growth showcased in the last financial report

Financial Business Analyst	 2020– 2022
DIMMO real estate, Montreal
Led cross-functional teams to develop information delivery solutions
Participated and provided technical leadership in all projects: from discovery and planning through implementation and delivery.
Supported solution development and executed operational plans.
Elicited requirements using various techniques.
Achievement: Saved one million dollars by redesigning the mortgage system, optimizing sales, and operational efficiency.


Diploma in Business Intelligence and Visualization Analyst                                          2019 – 2020
Montreal College of Information Technology, Montreal	

Financial Business Analyst                                                                                                 2015 – 2019                                                        
Ministry of Finance, First Undersecretary Department - Egypt                     
Analyzed complex data, conducted data profiling, and provided recommendations
Developed dashboards using Pivot Tables, Power Pivots, and data visualization tools
Completed in-depth analysis for business-optimization projects and redesigned the new system for rewarding tax officers.
Prepared a data quality assessment with recommendations for high-quality data.
Designed data quality rules, business rules, and data governance policies.

Achievement: Increased Egyptian tax revenues by 117% 

Business Analyst, ERP Financial                                                                                     2005 – 2019                                                                       
Ministry of Finance, Budget Automation Unit - Egypt                        
Leased and collaborated with organizational stakeholders to ensure alignment.
Analyzed and evaluated business processes, conducted gap analysis, and suggested improvements.
Conducted quality assurance, system integration, and user acceptance testing. Facilitated on-time, on-budget, and acclaimed "go-live" of enterprise implementations for up to 15,000 users.
Managed cross-functional teams and implemented Oracle E-Business suite projects
Provided technical support and training, and communicate technical concepts, converted business requirements into technical specifications
Designed national budget and actual automation roadmaps

 Achievement: Control over 60% of the Egyptian budget         



Financial Budget Analyst 	2001 – 2005
Ministry of Finance, National Budget Sector, Egypt                                                                        
Led budget preparation, incorporating cost analysis and financial insights.
Conducted comprehensive financial audits and data-driven assessments.
Automated budget preparation and reporting processes
Produced data models for reporting historical, current, and predictive patterns or trends related to budgets.
Reduced budget preparation and reporting times significantly

Achievement: Selected to establish the Budget Automation Unit 
Education
Comprehensive Business Analysis
 McGill University, Montreal.
Diploma in Business Intelligence and Visualization	
Montreal College of Information Technology, Montreal.
Postgraduate Diploma in Government and Public Sector Management	
ESLSCA Business School, Université Française d’Égypte, Egypt.
Postgraduate Diploma in Taxation
Ain Shams University, Egypt.
Bachelor of Science in Commerce, major in accounting	
Mansoura University, Egypt.
Comparative evaluation by the Department of Immigration, Francisation, and Integration
Interests